Introducing wai (#1115)
a11yproject/a11yproject.com: src/posts/2020-09-29-introducing-WAI.md

---
layout: post
title: Introduction to Web Accessibility Initiative.
description: Key facts about web accessibility initiative, what it is, and why it exists.
category: Background
author: Hamsa Harcourt
further_reading:
  - title: About W3C WAI
    url: https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/
    source: W3C Web Accessibility Initiative
  - title: "What is Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)?"
    url: https://www.washington.edu/doit/what-web-accessibility-initiative-wai
    source: "DO-IT - Disabilities, Opportunities, Internetworking, and Technology"
  - title: Web Accessibility Initiative
    url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Accessibility_Initiative
    source: Wikipedia
date: 2020-09-29
eleventyNavigation:
  key: {{ category }}
  title: {{ title }}
tags:
  - background
---

> The advent of the web brought infinite possibilities. It changed the way we learn, work and socialize because we were no longer limited by borders; real or imagined. However there was a problem: Lack of standard guidelines and proper structure. Due to the lack of standard guidelines and the divergence of individual initiatives that provided no real solution to people, the **Web Accessibility Initiative**(WAI) was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The advent of the web brought infinite possibilities. It changed the way we learn, work and socialize because we were no longer limited by borders; real or imagined. However there was a problem: Lack of standard guidelines and proper structure. Due to the divergence of individual initiatives the [Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/) was created.
```

Removing "no real solution" as many of those initiatives helped shape the WAI, either directly or indirectly.

Additionally, linking to the WAI homepage in context may be helpful here.

## Introduction

WAI is one of the initiatives created by the [World Wide Web Consortium(W3C)](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/) as an effort to improve accessibility on the web.

According to Tim Bernes-Lee, Director of the W3C and inventor of the World Wide Web:

<blockquote>
	<p>Worldwide, there are more than 750 million people with disabilities. As we move towards a highly connected world, it is critical that the web be usable by anyone, regardless of individual capabilities and disabilities.</p>
</blockquote>

WAI pursues accessibility through the following ways:

> - Ensuring that the web technology support accessibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensuring that web technologies support accessibility.

```

> - Developing guidelines for web content and application, browsers ad authoring tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Developing guidelines for web content, applications, browsers, and authoring tools.
```

- Developing tools to evaluate and facilitate accessibility.

> - Supporting education and outreach on web accessibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supporting education and outreach for web accessibility.

```

> - Co-ordinating with research and development that may impact the future of accessibility on the web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Coordinating with research and development that may impact the future of accessibility on the web.
```

- Promoting harmonized international uptake of web accessibility standards.

## Organization

WAI consists of several [working groups](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Working_group) and [special interest groups](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special_Interest_Group). Each working together for a common goal: improve accessibility on the web. The following are the working and special interest groups :

- [Accessibility Guideline Working Group (formerly the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Working Group)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/).
- [Accessible Platform Architectures (APA) Working Group](https://www.w3.org/WAI/APA/).
- [Accessible Rich Internet Applications (ARIA) Working Group](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/).
- [Education and Outreach Working Group (EOWG)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/eowg/).

> - [WAI Interest Group (WAI IG)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/waiig/).

Reviewer: Where did you source this list from?

Author: The list was sourced from their official site: https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/. I also provided the link in case of further reading

## Summary

> WAI was created by the [W3C](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/) as an effort to improve accessibility on the web. They develop accessibility standards and offer implementation guidance. WAI is made up of several working groups and special interest groups working together for a common goal: improve accessibility.

Reviewer: Great summary!
